In this demo, I am going to show you
how backup and restore works in kops.
In my Kubernetes course I have a directory etcd,
and in etcd I have a README file.
To create a high available cluster, you can use this line:
kops create cluster, still the kubernetes.newtech.academy
cluster, state; and then you can specify the zones:
eu-west-1a, eu-west-1b, eu-west-1c and the master zones.
So we gonna have three masters, also 1a, 1b, and 1c,
and a node count of three, node-size=t2.micro
and then master-size=t2.micro and then dns-zone.
This will spin up three masters, three workers,
all in different AZs, availability zones,
so that we have a high available cluster.
You can execute this command, kops create cluster,
and then kops update cluster minus minus yes
with the state file; then you'll have
a high available cluster running.
And then we can go and test the backups.
So, let's have a look.
(keyboard typing)
I have three masters; so, these are my masters.
And we have etcd running in kops,
and etcd is a bit different than in a Minikube etcd
because now you have three nodes.
But also kops has an etcd manager that it uses
so that it can take backups automatically to S3 as well.
So let's have a look at those, kube kubectl get pods
in kube-system, and we're going to filter on etcd.
Then you see we have three etcd manager events
and three etcd manager main, and these we need to have
to make our cluster running.
If you don't have these,
then we don't have a cluster basically.
We don't have a way to persist our data.
So let's log in into one of them, kubectl exec minus it.
And we're going to open bash,
and it'll be in the kubesystem namespace.
Here we have etcd running, and in the current directory
and slash we have etcd,
etcd-manager command line utility, CTL.
And we can do help to show the help.
With this tool we can get the cluster specs,
we can list the backups, and we can also restore a backup.
So, let's list the backups; and to list the backups
I need to add the backup store argument.
So I'm gonna add backup-store and then this full URL,
kops-state, your, this is basically your S3 bucket,
kubernetes.newtech.academy backups-etcd-main.
So that's where, in S3, the backups are stored;
and I'm then going to enter list backups.
So then it connects to S3 and then
lists the backups that I have now.
So, what I'm going to do now,
I'm going to destroy my cluster
and I will have to restore one of these backups;
and then I'm going to check whether I still have
the same information and whether my cluster still comes up.
So I'm gonna exit here, and I'm still going to do
one more command, kubectl get configmap.
I actually created a configmap using the readme.
The command is in the readme itself,
so kubectl create configmap readme is a readme,
but if you already have a Kubernetes object in your cluster,
you don't have to do this command.
You just need to have some object that you wanna check
whether the backup restore was successful
because if you create the object,
you also have to wait 15 minutes
to make sure that the backup runs.
In my cluster it's like 15 minutes
between them that the backup is taken.
So, I'm gonna have a look at this object;
but first, I'm going to delete my master nodes.
So these are my instances.
Three master nodes, so let's get rid of them.
Instant state terminate, and my Kubernetes cluster is gone.
My masters are deleted.
It'll take a few moments,
and then you'll also wanna go to volumes
and then now we have these volumes here,
etcd main event for A, B, and C.
Once they become available, then we also,
then we also want to delete them.
So there's still two in use.
I'll have to wait a little bit longer.
I'll already delete those, delete volumes.
I wanna make sure the data is completely gone.
There is still one master shutting down.
And we also have other scaling groups.
If we have a look here, master, master, master.
These are going to launch new instances to make sure
that the masters are recreated, so this is done in AWS.
There's an autoscaling group making sure
that new instances will be created.
So we already have one pending here, A, B, C;
and this one's still shutting down.
It's strange here that it takes a long time to shut down.
It's a bit annoying because I don't want,
because I also want to remove those two volumes.
I'm gonna do a force detach.
I just wanna make sure that Kubernetes is not going to
reuse this volume here in a new master, so...
Let me just remove all these tags here
to make sure that it is not reused.
There we go, and then now this one's already available.
Now, we'll delete this one as well.
So now that our Kubernetes cluster is actually
a little bit broken, let's log in to one of these nodes.
Let's try to fix it.
So if you do kubectl get nodes or get anything,
it will not work anymore, also because IP addresses
have been changed and that takes time to change as well.
So we'll just use ssh...
(keyboard typing)
to log into one of the nodes,
and then we need to repair our etcd cluster.
So let's have a look at docker ps etcd.
About a minute ago it came up,
so you see it takes a long time.
And I need to restore this etcd manager.
So, so this one's the main; this one's the events,
but we need to restore both of them.
Let me start bash.
Actually, let me first check the logs of it,
docker logs of this instance.
It is actually still waiting for the volumes.
Let's have a look at our volumes again.
This is the last one I want to delete.
Let's exit here, and let's run kops update cluster;
and now it's going to make sure that
everything is available again in our AWS account.
So when you do kops update, it will then recreate
these volumes because I deleted them.
It's not etcd itself that creates them;
it's actually kops that creates them.
So we delete the masters, delete the volumes,
because we want to test our restore;
and then we need to run kops update.
Kops update will then make those volumes
available for Kubernetes cluster.
Etcd waits until the volume becomes available, and then
it will attach it; and then if we have another look...
(keyboard typing)
there we see it's going to attach it.
And there we go.
Now it's going to format it,
and then it will discover that it's empty.
So it's going to read our cluster specification.
That's why we need this etcd manager.
It manages the etcd cluster.
And then we, it says unexpected error
running etcd cluster reconciliation.
Etcd has zero members registered,
must issue restore backup command to proceed.
So this one is then the leader.
I am the leader, and you should try
to restore it on the leader in the backup.
So let's try to restore the backup now.
Docker exec of this container ID,
gonna run minus IT bash;
and then we do etcd, etcd-manager-ctl list-backups.
And let's restore lost backup, this one.
So we do restore backup, and then it's going to send
a command or add a command to the queue.
We can also use list queue, list commands,
to see what the commands are in the queue.
So now this command is restored, backup is in the queue.
And let's do the same for our events,
docker ps grep etcd.
The first one is events;
these also need to be restored, docker exec IT bash.
We can use the same command, but we need to change this
backup store because now instead of main,
it's going to be events, etcd events list backups.
These are the events backups, restore backup.
Then the last one, and then
it's also going to add this command.
Now you'll have to wait a little bit.
We can check the logs to see what is happening, docker logs.
And then if you read the command
that needs to restore and then it should start
at some point recovering the cluster.
So maybe I do minus F,
got a lot of output.
Etcd has two members registered now.
I'll try to expand the clusters,
which will take time for the other nodes to come up.
But at some point it will have three clusters again.
So then the next step is actually that the etcd cluster
will recover and then the API server also needs to recover.
So we do ps aux API server.
We don't have an API server yet.
Docker ps -a grep kube-apiserver,
so we have one of those exited; and I will show you why.
Docker logs...
It couldn't connect to 4,001 because that's where our etcd
is running, and then it exited not very nicely even.
It actually completely crashed,
but a kubelet is going to restore the kube API server.
So if we wait a little bit or we execute systemctl
restart kubelet, then our API server also restarts.
So I (mumbles) do docker ps grep kube-api,
and now our kube-api is up five seconds ago.
I do Docker logs minus F, and then it's still
not being able to connect and it crashes again.
We have to have another look at this endpoint,
still connection refused.
Let's have another look, etcd.
Etcd manager docker logs,
still only two members; we want three.
And it's the B that is not connecting,
connecting refused from B.
What is happening here,
our B volume is still doing something.
So it will take some time before it can be attached.
I actually think that there is an issue
with the B availability zone in Amazon.
That might actually happen because there seems
to be an issue with this B master.
One or more volumes attached to this instance is impaired.
Please review the state of your volumes.
That's not good.
I can actually stop this B again and have it restarting.
That's probably the easiest way to resolve this issue.
I will shut down B again, terminate,
delete this B volume,
and delete this B volume.
I'll again remove the labels, the tags;
there's no tags here.
Delete these tags.
Delete these tags, save, refresh.
It's available now.
Delete again, run kops update.
Kops will recreate the volumes.
There we go; two available volumes,
and then there will be a new one,
master eu-west-1b attaching those.
I only have to restore the backup once because then
the leader will make sure the data gets everywhere.
So now it's initializing.
Let's have a look at the volumes.
At some point they should start attaching.
Let's have a look in this instance.
(keyboard typing)
So this is the B instance, up for two minutes.
Etcd, up for five seconds, 20 seconds.
And then it already attached the volume just now.
As I look at the volumes again.
So now it is in use, the first one, the events.
And now the main also needs to be attached.
This looks better; it has found the other A and C.
So let's log again to our number A.
And curl works now, curl to this 4001.
It's using (mumbles) less, so it cannot really do anything.
We get a bad, alert bad certificate
because we don't have the certificates.
You could log in to etcd only if you have the certificates,
and the certificates are within the etcd container.
So now the API server should be up.
API server's up; let's take a looks.
Look up ps grep kube-api docker logs,
and it is up and running.
We can use kubectl also here on the node
because it will take some time before the DNS is updated.
Kubectl get pods.
No pods found in default namespace,
but here is my configmap.
So the restore actually worked.
So in this lecture, in this demo, I showed you
that there are backups by default in kops on S3.
I deleted the master nodes, the volumes,
used kops updates to recreate the volumes.
The nodes itself were recreated automatically
because of the autoscaling group.
Then it attaches the volume, formats the volume.
etcd says there is a problem; I cannot find my files.
There's no state, so you need to restore a backup.
I restored a backup for the main and for the events,
and then the kube API server keeps on restarting
until etcd is available again.
Etcd is available; I can do kubectl get configmap,
and I see my configmap that I created
before destroying the volumes.
Hopefully you don't really have to do that,
but it's definitely good to know if your etcd cluster
becomes corrupt how you have to restore your data
and how all the systems kind of work together.
So this is for kops.
In the theory, I also showed you the common commands
to use the etcd command line utility to take backups.
We don't really need it here
because we have the etcd manager.
All different clusters have a different kind of setup,
so it will depend a little bit on your setup
of your cluster what kind of tooling that you are using
to see how you have to take backups
and restore backups of etcd.
So for kops, it's pretty straightforward,
especially because they already take the backups for you.
In other systems, you might have to take the backups.
Even in some managed systems,
it might be done for (mumbles) for example.
So this was it.
It's very possible that you might get into some trouble
trying out this lab yourself.
You've seen me struggling with it already.
So, if you have any questions,
use the Q&A and I'll be ready to help you.